README.md, before:

# Whistle

Whistle is a desktop application that efficiently transcribes audio to text and polishes text
through AI. Perfect for note-taking, content creation, and accessibility.

## Features

- **Audio Transcription**: Quickly convert speech to text with high accuracy using fast-whisper
- **Text Polishing**: Clean up transcribed text using DeepSeek V3 for better readability
- **Global Shortcuts**: Control recording and text processing even when the app is in background
- **System Tray Integration**: Access functionality quickly from your system tray
- **Clipboard Integration**: Seamlessly work with your clipboard content

## Installation

### Download

Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/yourusername/whistle/releases)
page.

### Build from Source

If you prefer to build from source:

1. **Prerequisites**:

   - Rust and Cargo
   - Node.js and npm/yarn

2. **Setup**:

   ```bash
   # Clone the repository
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/whistle.git
   cd whistle

   # Install dependencies
   npm install

   # Run in development mode
   npm run tauri dev

   # Build for production
   npm run tauri build
   ```

## Usage

### Basic Controls

1. **Start/Stop Recording**: Press `Cmd+Option+R` (Mac) or `Ctrl+Alt+R` (Windows/Linux)
2. **Polish Clipboard Text**: Press `Cmd+Option+C` (Mac) or `Ctrl+Alt+C` (Windows/Linux)
3. **Access Menu**: Right-click on the system tray icon

### Customizing Shortcuts

1. Open the application window
2. Use the shortcut configuration panel to set your preferred key combinations

### Configuration

Settings are stored in `~/.config/whistle/` directory:

- `shortcuts.json`: Contains your custom keyboard shortcuts

## Troubleshooting

- **No audio recording**: Ensure microphone permissions are granted in system settings
- **Transcription errors**: Try speaking more clearly or in a quieter environment
- **Shortcut conflicts**: Change shortcuts if they conflict with other applications

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

For support or suggestions, contact alex t. at [aletapia@proton.me](mailto:aletapia@proton.me).

Commit message:

(feat): update README and enhance audio recording logic
This commit updates the README to reflect the correct repository link and installation instructions, including the transition to using Tauri CLI and pnpm. It also enhances the audio recording logic by implementing a mechanism to cancel recording after a period of silence, improving user experience and functionality.

README.md, after:

# Whistle

Whistle is a desktop application that efficiently transcribes audio to text and polishes text
through AI. Perfect for note-taking, content creation, and accessibility.

## Features

- **Audio Transcription**: Quickly convert speech to text with high accuracy using fast-whisper
- **Text Polishing**: Clean up transcribed text using DeepSeek V3 for better readability
- **Global Shortcuts**: Control recording and text processing even when the app is in background
- **System Tray Integration**: Access functionality quickly from your system tray
- **Clipboard Integration**: Seamlessly work with your clipboard content

## Installation

### Download

Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/0xDAEF0F/whistle/releases)
page.

### Build from Source

If you prefer to build from source:

1. **Prerequisites**:

   - [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
   - [Tauri CLI](https://v2.tauri.app/reference/cli/)
   - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download)
     Note: you can install pnpm with `npm install -g pnpm`

2. **Setup**:

   ```bash
   # Clone the repository
   git clone https://github.com/0xDAEF0F/whistle.git
   cd whistle

   ### Build for production (this will run `pnpm install`, too)
   cargo tauri build --release

   # Run in development mode
   cargo tauri dev
   ```

## Usage

### Basic Controls

1. **Start/Stop Recording**: Press `Cmd+Option+R` (Mac) or `Ctrl+Alt+R` (Windows/Linux)
2. **Polish Clipboard Text**: Press `Cmd+Option+C` (Mac) or `Ctrl+Alt+C` (Windows/Linux)
3. **Access Menu**: Right-click on the system tray icon

### Customizing Shortcuts

1. Open the application window
2. Use the shortcut configuration panel to set your preferred key combinations

### Configuration

Shortcuts are stored in `~/.config/whistle/shortcuts.json`

## Troubleshooting

- **No audio recording**: Ensure microphone permissions are granted in system settings
- **Transcription errors**: Try speaking more clearly or in a quieter environment
- **Shortcut conflicts**: Change shortcuts if they conflict with other applications

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

For support or suggestions, contact alex t. at [aletapia@proton.me](mailto:aletapia@proton.me).
